---
layout: post
author: zemin 
category: HCI
demo: false 
---

Task: Enhancing human abilities in the age of AR.

# Lecture 7: Ideate

Assignment: Create and sketch and present at least three ideas.

## First idea: super memory of everyone that you have met ever

&nbsp;

With AR technology, the HMD will do face recognition of people around. The people that you have never met before will be registered in database. If there is someone that you met before in some other place, his or her shape will be emphasized with contour, with infomation like the position and time of last meeting.

&nbsp;

This ability is useful when someone is tracking you and going to commit a crime on you. Even you are not looking at him/her, the moment when the device notice his abnormal behaviour, the police will be notified. It can also be used if you would like to know the common place that you have been together before to have something to talk in common.

&nbsp;

This can be achieve by using image recognition technology.

&nbsp;

## Second idea: hear about news about you from distance

With AR technology, we can input a keyword (ex. a name), whenever someone is talking about this keyword in a limited distance (ex. 10 meters), you will be notified and can know where they are. This can be achieved by using a radar to receive infomations combined with the AR technology to visualize it.

&nbsp;

## Third idea: flying experience when travelling

In the age of augmented reality, self-driving car will be also developed. By setting a dark environment in a car, we can use HMD to simulate a space in the air with landscape of the Earth below. With the help of some devices simulating the winds and shaking, we can have an experience of flying in the air.

&nbsp;

This can be a great way to kill the time when having nothing to do in a self-driving car.

&nbsp;

# Lecture 8: Prototype

Assignment: Build a prototype (e.g,. paper prototype, WoZ) that is good enough to have a first user exposure

# Lecture 9: Use the prototype for evaluation

Assignment: Ask at least one person (other than you) to interact with your prototype. Observe and discuss with this person what their opinion is towards your concept and interaction. Critically reflect !

&nbsp;
