---
layout: post
author: zemin 
category: HCI
demo: false 
---

# Lecture10: The shape of smartphones

Discuss the evolution of shape of smartphones. Why did they change their shape and what do you think will be the next step in this transformation ? Explain why you think this could be the case.

&nbsp;

When talking about this topic, the size of screen and shape of smartphone should be considered. The shape of smartphones changes greatly during these 30 years. At the beginning, a smartphone was voluminous due to the limit of technologies and it looks like the part that we hold at a fixed phone. At that time, we can only send message and call others with a smartphone. Years later, when the capacity of calculation on a smartphone became much bigger, we can do more things with smartphone. We also needed a riched input system to interact with it. That's why we have a much bigger screen right now.

&nbsp;

In my opinion, the next step in this transformation will be that the screen of a smartphone a bit smaller, which we can attach it with one part of our body, such as the glasses and watch. The mixed-reality will work better with this generation of smartphone. Perhaps with 5G, there will be no much calculation on the smartphone. All will be done in *cloud* and stream to our smartphone.

&nbsp;

# Lecture 11: Read Computer of the 21st Century

Read Mark Weiser’s paper and discuss the following question: Are we already living in a world of ubiquitous computing ? What already happened that we need for this vision and what needs to happen that we get more towards ubiquitous computing ?

&nbsp;

> The most profound technologies are those that disappear. They weave themselves into the fabric of everyday life until they are indistinguishable from it. -- Mark Weiser

&nbsp;

In my opinion, we are already living in a world of ubiquitous computing. Like the statement of Mark Weiser above, we cannot see them but we use them everyday. A good example is the auto-door. When we approche it opens, and we merely will think about the existance and the calculation behind it.

&nbsp;

There are many more examples of ubiquitous in artificial intelligence. A curcial step towards this vision is the arrival of 5G generation where data can be transfered much faster. With collaboration of robots and AI, some tasks will be done without human being's participation. For example, if the self-driving car's vision is realized, then after 20 years we hardly recognize the driving behaviour because all are done by robotics and calculation in *cloud*. Therefore, what we need is a more intelligent AI to do the daily task for us.

# Lecture 12: Most Downloaded Application in the future MR App Store

People often like to discuss “Killer Apps” for Mixed Reality. However, this implies that there will be one specific application that makes me want to buy an MR HMD. Instead, try to think about the following: Imagine a future where MR HMDs are as ubiquitous as smartphones. Think about the future Appstore. Sketch and present three applications that you think will be among the most downloaded. Explain why you think this might be the case ? Example: Mixed Reality Text Translation.

&nbsp;

**Mixed Reality Music Player**. There is no doubt that most of us love music. In MR era, it is natural that we use our vocal to make a input, for example, we order the music to play by directly speaking "music Play". 

&nbsp;

**Mixed Reality Shopping Helper**. Many of us will come to supermarket and spend one or two hours in selecting what we need. This application will note down those we are lack of and will help us make decision in supermarket. It can be useful and save our time. My imagination is similar to that of the *[Spatial Search](https://vimeo.com/218675811)* in project *Reality Editor*.

&nbsp;

**Mixed Reality Dressing Helper**. Many girls have a bunch of clothes and they spend time in choosing the clothes, especially in the morning of working day. This application will pre-visualize the final effect when we use the MR-HMD and help them to make a best decision in a limit time.

&nbsp;

# References:

[The computer for the 21st century](https://www.lri.fr/~mbl/Stanford/CS477/papers/Weiser-SciAm.pdf)